# Radiosonde data analysis

## Overview
This repository contains python scripts to download, process and analyse radiosonde data from the University of Wyoming archive. These data include information about temperature and pressure at defined heights, collected using wheather balloons.
The case of study is the S. Pietro Capofiume station, located near Bologna, Italy, but the script can be easily adapted for other stations.

The analysis includes:

⦁	Downloading and pre-processing radiosonde data about temperature and pressure.

⦁	Pressure and temperature over time plots, to compare trends at different altitudes.

⦁	Pressure and temperature comparison between ground level and higher levels.

⦁	Heatmaps to visualize the correlation between parameters at different heights.

⦁	Mean vertical temperature profile visualization.

## Repository structure
Radiosonde_analysis.ipynb # Main script (download + all plots)
climate_readme.md # Project description (this file)
radiosonde_pressure.csv # CSV file generated by the script. It contains pressure data collected.
radiosonde_temperature.csv # CSV file generated by the script. It contains temperature data collected.

## Requirements  
Make sure you have Python ≥ 3.9 and install the required libraries:  
```bash
pip install numpy pandas matplotlib requests scipy seaborn
```

## How to run
1 Clone this repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/radiosonde-analysis.git
cd radiosonde-analysis

2 Launch jupyter notebook 

then open radiosonde_analysis.ipynb

3 Edit parameters in the first cell

⦁	Station code (default = 16144, San Pietro Capofiume)

⦁	Target altitudes

⦁	Time period (start and end dates)

⦁	Launch hours (default = 00 and 12 UTC)


4 Run all cells to download data, save them in CSV and to generate plots (time analysis, comparisons, heatmaps and mean vertical profile).

## References
Data source: University of Wyoming, Department of Atmospheric Science – Upper Air Sounding Data Archive.
Available at: http://weather.uwyo.edu/upperair/sounding.html
